Jv thunder convnext final (#9)
sezan92/computer-vision-course: chapters/en/Unit 2 - Convolutional Neural Networks/convnext.mdx

# ConvNext - A ConvNet for the 2020s (2022)

## Introduction

> The paper "A ConvNet for the 2020s" proposed the ConvNext architecture in 2022 by a team of researchers from Facebook AI Research, including Zhuang Liu, Hanzi Mao, Chao-Yuan Wu, Christoph Feichtenhofer, Trevor Darrell, and Saining Xie.

Reviewer: the paper details can be added to the Reference section

Author: changed

> Recently, the breakthrough of Vision Transformers (ViTs) quickly superseded pure ConvNet models as the new state-of-the-art for image recognition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recently, the breakthrough of Vision Transformers (ViTs) quickly superseded pure CNN models as the new state-of-the-art for image recognition.
```

# ConvNext - A ConvNet for the 2020s (2022)

## Introduction
Recently, the breakthrough of Vision Transformers (ViTs) quickly superseded pure CMM models as the new state-of-the-art for image recognition.
Intriguingly, research has found that a significant portion of the design choices in Vision Transformers can be mapped to CNNs.
ConvNext represents a significant improvement to pure convolution models by incorporating techniques inspired by ViTs and achieving results comparable to ViTs in terms of accuracy and scalability.

## Key Improvements
ConvNext starts with a regular ResNet (ResNet-50) and gradually modernizes and modifies the architecture to closely imitate the hierarchical structure of Vision Transformers.
The key improvements are:
- Training Techniques
- Macro Design
- ResNeXt-ify
- Inverted Bottleneck
- Large Kernel Sizes
- Micro Design
We will go through each of the key improvements briefly.

> These designs are not novel in itself, however you can learn how researchers adapt and modify designs systematically to improve existing models.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These designs are not novel in itself, however, you can learn how researchers adapt and modify designs systematically to improve existing models.
```

[Block Comparison](./images/convnext/block_comparison.png)

## Training Techniques
Before changing the design of the architecture, having a good training procedure will significantly affect the performance.
ConvNext applies training techniques close to DeiT and Swin Transformers which are:
- Extended epochs from the original 90 epochs to 300 epochs
- AdamW optimizer
- Data augmentation techniques such as Mixup, Cutmix, RandAugment, Random Erasing
- Regularization schemes including Stochastic Depth and Label Smoothing
This improves ResNet-50's accuracy from 76.1% to 78.8%.

## Macro Design

> Analyzing Swin Transformers' macro network, there are two interesting design considerations that is used in ConvNext.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Analyzing Swin Transformers' macro network, two interesting design considerations are used in ConvNext.
```

### The stage compute ratio
The stage compute ratio refers to how the computational load is distributed among the stages of a neural network model.
Following Swin Transformer's compute ratio of 1:1:3:1, the researchers adjusted the number of blocks on each stage of the ResNet from the original (3, 4, 6, 3) to (3, 3, 9, 3). 
This improves the model accuracy from 78.8% to 79.4%.

### Changing stem to Patchify

> Typically, on the start of ResNet's architecture, the input is fed to a stem a 7×7 convolution layer with stride 2, followed by a max pool, which is used to downsample the image by a factor of 4.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Typically, at the start of ResNet's architecture, the input is fed to a stem a 7×7 convolution layer with stride 2, followed by a max pool, which is used to downsample the image by a factor of 4.
```

However, it turns out to be substitutable to a simpler but more effective 4×4 non-overlapping convolutional layer with stride 4.
This improves the model accuracy from 79.4% to 79.5%.

## ResNeXt-ify
ConvNext adopts the idea of ResNeXt, which has been explored in the previous page. 

> In short, ResNeXt has a better FLOPs (number of floating point operations) over accuracy trade-off than a vanilla ResNet by having grouped convolution for the 3×3 conv layer in the bottleneck block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In short, ResNeXt has better FLOPs (number of floating point operations) over accuracy trade-off than a vanilla ResNet by having grouped convolution for the 3×3 conv layer in the bottleneck block.
```

Specifically, ConvNext increases the network width to 96 channels.
This improves the model accuracy from 79.5% to 80.5%.

## Inverted Bottleneck

> An important idea in every Transformer block is usage of inverted bottleneck, where the hidden layers are bigger (by a ratio of 4 for ConvNext) than the input dimension. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An important idea in every Transformer block is the usage of an inverted bottleneck, where the hidden layers are bigger (by a ratio of 4 for ConvNext) than the input dimension. 
```

This idea has also been used and popularized in Computer Vision by MobileNetV2.
By using this technique, it improves the model accuracy from 80.5% to 80.6%.
[Inverted Bottleneck Comparison](./images/convnext/inverted_bottleneck.png)

## Large Kernel Sizes

> One of the reasons Vision Transformer do so well has to do with its non-local self-attention which enables a more global receptive field of image features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the reasons Vision Transformer does so well is its non-local self-attention which enables a more global receptive field of image features.
```

Swin Transformers' attention block window size is at least 7×7, bigger than ResNext's 3x3 kernel size. ConvNext changes ResNext's original kernel size as follows.
- Moving up the position of the depthwise convolution layer is a prerequisite to increasing the kernel size. By doing this, we can let the 1x1 layers do the efficient heavy lifting while the depthwise convolution layer focus as a more non-local receptor.
- With the prerequisite set up, we can get the benefit of adopting larger kernel-sized convolutions. 
By using kernel size 7x7, the network retains the accuracy while improving the model's overall FLOPs.
[Moving up the Depth Conv Layer](./images/convnext/depthwise_moveup.png)

## Micro Design
In addition to the modifications stated, ConvNext also considers micro design, focusing on layer level details.
The changes are:
- Replacing ReLU activation with GELU (Gaussian Error Linear Unit) (optional, accuracy stays unchanged) 
- Fewer activation functions (eliminate all GELU layers from the residual block except for one between two 1×1 layers, replicating the style of a Transformer block)

> - Fewer normalization layers (remove two BatchNorm layers, leaving only one BN layerbefore the conv 1 × 1 layers)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fewer normalization layers (remove two BatchNorm layers, leaving only one BN layer before the conv 1 × 1 layers)
```

- Substituting Batch Normalization with Layer Normalization (LN improves the model after doing the previous modifications)
- Separate downsampling layers (add a separate downsample layer in between ResNet stages, adding LN layers before each downsampling layer)
With these final modifications, this improves the final model accuracy from 80.6% to 82.0%, exceeding Swin Transformer's accuracy (81.3%).

## Model Code
You can go to [this HuggingFace documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/convnext) to learn more about how to integrate the ConvNext pipeline into your code.

## References
The paper "A ConvNet for the 2020s" proposed the ConvNext architecture in 2022 by a team of researchers from Facebook AI Research, including Zhuang Liu, Hanzi Mao, Chao-Yuan Wu, Christoph Feichtenhofer, Trevor Darrell, and Saining Xie.

> The paper can be found [here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.03545) and the github repo can be found [here](https://github.com/facebookresearch/ConvNeXt).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The paper can be found [here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.03545) and the GitHub repo can be found [here](https://github.com/facebookresearch/ConvNeXt).
```

The key improvements are:
- Training Techniques
- Macro Design
- ResNeXt-ify
- Inverted Bottleneck
- Large Kernel Sizes
- Micro Design
We will go through each of the key improvements.
These designs are not novel in itself. However, you can learn how researchers adapt and modify designs systematically to improve existing models.
To show the effectiveness of each improvement, we will compare the model's accuracy before and after the modification on ImageNet-1K.
[Block Comparison](./images/convnext/block_comparison.png)

## Training Techniques
The researchers first discerned that, while architectural design choices are crucial, the quality of the training procedure also plays a pivotal role in influencing performance outcomes.
Inspired by DeiT and Swin Transformers, ConvNext closely adapts their training techniques. Some of the notable changes are:
- Epochs: Extending the epochs from the original 90 epochs to 300 epochs.
- Optimizer: Using AdamW optimizer instead of Adam optimizer, which differs in how it handles weight decay.

> - Data augmentation: Using Mixup, Cutmix, RandAugment, Random Erasing to increase training data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Data augmentation: Using Mixup, Cutmix, RandAugment, and Random Erasing to increase training data.
```

- Regularization: Using Stochastic Depth and Label Smoothing as regularization techniques.
Modifying these training procedures has improved ResNet-50's accuracy from 76.1% to 78.8%.

## Macro Design
Macro design refers to the high-level structural decisions and considerations made in a system or model, such as the arrangement of layers, the distribution of computational load across different stages, and the overall structure.

> Examining Swin Transformers' macro network, the authors have identified two noteworthy design considerations that benefits the performance of ConvNext.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Examining Swin Transformers' macro network, the authors have identified two noteworthy design considerations that benefit the performance of ConvNext.
```

### The stage compute ratio
The stage compute ratio refers to the distribution of computational load among the stages of a neural network model.
ResNet-50 has four main stages with (3, 4, 6, 3) blocks, which means it has a compute ratio of 3:4:6:3.
To follow Swin Transformer's compute ratio of 1:1:3:1, the researchers adjusted the number of blocks on each stage of the ResNet from (3, 4, 6, 3) to (3, 3, 9, 3) instead. 
Changing the stage compute ratio improves the model accuracy from 78.8% to 79.4%.

### Changing stem to Patchify
Typically, at the start of ResNet's architecture, the input is fed to a stem 7×7 convolution layer with stride 2, followed by a max pool, used to downsample the image by a factor of 4.
However, the authors discovered that substituting the stem with a convolutional layer featuring a 4×4 kernel size and a stride of 4 is more effective, effectively convolving them through non-overlapping 4x4 patches. 

> Patchify serves the same purpose of downsampling the image by a factor of 4, while reducing the number of layers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Patchify serves the same purpose of downsampling the image by a factor of 4 while reducing the number of layers.
```

This Patchifying step slightly improves the model accuracy from 79.4% to 79.5%.

## ResNeXt-ify
ConvNext also adopts the idea of ResNeXt, explained in the previous section. 
ResNeXt demonstrates an improved trade-off between the number of floating-point operations (FLOPs) and accuracy compared to a standard ResNet.
By using depthwise convolution and 1 × 1 convolutions, we would have the separation of spatial and channel mixing - a characteristic also found in vision Transformers.
Using depthwise convolutions reduces the number of FLOPS and the accuracy.

> However, by increase the channels from 64 to 96, the accuracy is higher than the original ResNet-50 while maintaining a similar number of FLOPs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, by increasing the channels from 64 to 96, the accuracy is higher than the original ResNet-50 while maintaining a similar number of FLOPs.
```

## Inverted Bottleneck
One common idea in every Transformer block is the usage of an inverted bottleneck, where the hidden layers are much bigger than the input dimension. 
This idea has also been used and popularized in Computer Vision by MobileNetV2.
ConvNext adopts this idea, having input layers with 96 channels and increasing the hidden layers to 384 channels.
By using this technique, it improves the model accuracy from 80.5% to 80.6%.
[Inverted Bottleneck Comparison](./images/convnext/inverted_bottleneck.png)

## Large Kernel Sizes
A key factor contributing to the exceptional performance of Vision Transformer is its non-local self-attention, allowing for a broader receptive field of image features.
In Swin Transformers, the attention block window size is set to at least 7×7, surpassing the 3x3 kernel size of ResNext. 
However, before adjusting the kernel size, it is necessary to reposition the depthwise convolution layer, as shown in the image below. 
This repositioning enables the 1x1 layers to efficiently handle computational tasks, while the depthwise convolution layer functions as a more non-local receptor.

> With this, the network can harness the advantages of incorporating a bigger kernel-sized convolutions. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this, the network can harness the advantages of incorporating bigger kernel-sized convolutions. 
```

Implementing a 7x7 kernel size maintains the accuracy at 80.6% but reduces the overall FLOPs efficiency of the model.
[Moving up the Depth Conv Layer](./images/convnext/depthwise_moveup.png)

## Micro Design

> In addition to the modifications stated, the author adds some micro design changes to the model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the modifications stated, the author adds some micro-design changes to the model.
```

> Mico design refers to the low-level structural decisions such as the choice of activation functions and layers details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mico design refers to low-level structural decisions such as the choice of activation functions and layer details.
```
